# Crime and Drug Treatment across Detroit
This repository contains the datasets, tools for analysis, results, reproducibility package, and final report of the ECN 310 zipcentercrime team project.
# Abstract
In this study, we study the relationship between the distance from a substance abuse treatment center (SATC) and the number of 911 calls in the Greater Detroit area. This paper creates a framework that locates the SATCs in the Greater Detroit area and then creates rings around them at distances ranging from 50 to 2500 meters to find the number of calls within each ring. Our analysis gathers all the calls to the Detroit Police Department in 2017. Using this data, we conduct an array of t-tests to test if there is a lower likelihood of calls the further someone is from a SATC. With the help of the "City of Detroit's Open Data Portal," we can obtain information on the type of call along with precisely when and where it occurred. This paper finds the number of calls between the distance to an SATC and a 911 call. A t-test is conducted with this information to find the difference in 911 calls per ring around an SATC. We did this for all 911 calls and for calls that involved crimes. The results show that the more 911 calls and crimes reported, the closer it is to an SATC. There are various potential reasons behind this reaction, many of which this paper explores further. The potential importance of this paper comes from the relationship between 911 calls and SATCs, which could help infrastructure planning in similar urban areas.
# Contents
1. Final report (ADD LINK)
2. [Reproducability Package](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-zipcentercrime/tree/main/Reproducibility%20Package)
