# Zip-Center-Crime Reproducability Package
### Accessing the Raw Data 
#### 911 call data
The 911 call data we used can be found from the City of Detroits Open Data Portal and searching "Police Serviced 911 Calls" or via this [link](https://data.detroitmi.gov/datasets/detroitmi::police-serviced-911-calls/about).We isolated the observations to one year, 2017, from the original dataset 911-Data so we could perform cross-sectional analysis. This dataset is referred to as 2017-911-Calls. We chose observations from 2017 since the year a) overlaps with dataset 2 and b) is before COVID-19, where crime rates statistics shifted in general. (\href{https://doi.org/10.1007/s12103-023-09746-4}{Hoeboer, Kitseelar, and Henrich}). This is to eliminate COVID-19 effects from affecting our data analysis. We used the longitude and latitude variables from 2017-911-Calls for cross-sectional-analysis with treatment-center dataset.
#### Drug Treatment Center Data
The drug treatment center data was provided to us directly from a Professor Deza, but originated from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration (SAMHSA). The raw data can be downloaded through GitHub [here](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-zipcentercrime/blob/main/detroit_samhsa_sud_2015_2021.dta), or the data can be requested through SAMSHA with these parameters: a) drugtreatment centers in Detroit, MI metropolitan area b) between the yeras of 2015 and 2021. We chose to use year 2017 data to be able to perform cross sectional analysis with 2017-911-Calls. There are 55 variables and 333 observations in total in dataset 2. There are 44 substance abuse treatment centers (SATC) open in 2017. We used the longitude and latitude variables from the 2017 dataset. 

### Pre-analysis data work
We are only analizing 2017 data from both data sets
- The 2017 911 Call data set can be accessed through OneDrive via this [link](https://sumailsyr-my.sharepoint.com/my?id=%2Fpersonal%2Fregaudre%5Fsyr%5Fedu%2FDocuments%2FECN%20310%20%2D%20Zip%20Center%20Crime%20data%2F911%20Calls%20Yearly%20data) and the do file used to seperate the 2017 data from the raw data can be found in GitHub [here](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-zipcentercrime/blob/main/Data%20by%20year/911%20call%20data%20by%20year/do%20files/Create_2017_911_call_data.do)
- The 2017 Treatment Center data can be accessed in GitHub [here](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-zipcentercrime/blob/main/Data%20by%20year/Treatment%20center%20data%20by%20year/2017_treatment_center_data.dta), and the do file can be accessed also in GitHub through following this [link](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-zipcentercrime/blob/main/Data%20by%20year/Treatment%20center%20data%20by%20year/do%20files/create_2017_treatment_center_data.do)
- Make sure both datasets are saved as ".csv" files. (comma delimited)
### Data Analysis
#### ArcGISPro
- We used the ArcGISPro application to layer both 2017 datasets and geocode their locations. Using the coordinates (longitude and latitude variables) of each point, we created two new variables. Every 911 call is assigned one SATC, the one geographically closest to it. This means no observation is counted twice. 
- The ArcGIS Reproducability Document can be accessed in GitHub or through this [link](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-zipcentercrime/blob/main/Reproducibility%20Package/ArcGIS_Reproducability.md). This document explains how to reproduce the process of seperating 911 calls by distance from a drug treatment center.
- The NewData2.csv file created from the ArcGIS Reproducability Package above can be accessed and downloaded through this [GitHub file](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-zipcentercrime/blob/main/ArcGIS%20files/NewData2Download.md)
- ArcData.do uses NewData2.csv to collapse the data and run analysis through conducting t-tests at each distance range
#### Stata
- Open that dataset into Stata/MP 18.0 and follow this [do file](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-zipcentercrime/blob/main/Reproducibility%20Package/Do%20files/ArcDataDo.do).
- We created distance rings per distance (in meters) radius of the treatment center. The distance rings/parameters are 100, 250, 500, 750, 1000, 1250, 1500, 1750, 2000, 2250, and 2500 meters. These will become new columns/varaibles in the dataset.
- Perform a two-sample t-test on each coinciding parameter to identify if there is a statistical difference in the distribution of observations for each. 
