# Crime and Drug Treatment across Detroit
This repository contains the datasets, tools for analysis, results, reproducibility package, and final report of the ECN 310 zipcentercrime team project.
# Abstract
In this study, we analyze the relationship between the distance from a substance abuse treatment center (SATC) and the number of 911 calls in the greater Detroit area. We hypothesize that the proximity to a SATC decreases crime in an area. This paper creates a framework that locates the SATCs in the greater Detroit area and then creates rings around them at distances ranging from 50 to 2500 meters to find the number of calls within each ring. We utilize 911 call data from the Detroit Police Department in 2017 and SATC data from Substance Abuse and Mental Health Association. A two sample t-test is conducted with this information to find if there is a meaningful difference in mean 911 calls per ring around an SATC. Statistical significance would show that there is a relationship between SATC and local crime in the area. The results show that the more 911 calls and crimes reported, the closer it is to an SATC. There are various potential reasons behind this reaction, many of which this paper explores further. The potential importance of this paper comes from the relationship between 911 calls and SATCs, which could help infrastructure planning in similar urban areas.
# Contents
1. [Final report](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-zipcentercrime/blob/main/Final%20Report/Crime%20and%20Drug%20Treatment%20across%20Detroit.pdf)
2. [Reproducability Package](https://github.com/ecn310/course-project-zipcentercrime/tree/main/Reproducibility%20Package)
